hey what's up guys mkbhd here and this
is the samsung galaxy s20 ultra and it
is samsung's
attack of the numbers
[Music]
so this is it this huge phone here is
samsung's highest and most expensive
flagship phone
ever and there's a lot of words samsung
could have chosen to use here they could
have gone plus
or
max they could have gone pro
but they went
ultra ultra
ultra
extremist
radical yeah i think that's that's
actually pretty accurate so if the
question is how can you possibly justify
a new phone that expensive samsung's
answer is by throwing all the hardware
at you all the specs every single big
number they can possibly think of
they're going into this phone it looks
on paper like a great idea how could a
phone with snapdragon 865 16 gigs of ram
512 gigs of ufs 3.0 108 megapixels 100x
zoom 8k
5 000 milliamp hours 120 hertz 1440p
5g how could this phone be anything
other than the best
well i'll tell you but let's start with
the design though just because i think
it's actually the least ultra thing
about this phone and it's pretty simple
actually it's a massive phone glass
sandwich with a gigantic recognizable
double camera bump uh expandable storage
at the top speaker at the bottom rip
headphone jack you know on one hand it
kind of blends in with the smartphones
of today especially in samsung's lineup
but on the other hand there's no
mistaking it actually remember when
smartphone displays were getting bigger
and bigger and then they first crossed
over five inches like average and then
they sort of evened out at 5.3 inch and
people thought it was kind of getting
crazy and then samsung
because who else
came out with the galaxy
mega that's really a phone they came out
with and named that had a
6.3 inch display it was just hilarious
like no one else would try that but this
phone was the size of a tablet with the
form factor of a phone it really was the
mega phone yet here we are now today
with galaxy s20 ultra bigger than any
galaxy mega or any galaxy note even has
ever been with a 6.9 inch display
it's huge for me it still fits in my
pocket and it's usable for me but it
might not be for everyone clearly giant
phones aren't for everyone i gotta say
though for an ultra phone the color
options of glossy black glossy grey are
a bit underwhelming of course channel
sponsor dbrand will gladly step up and
customize the look on the back and you
can get as wild as this robot camo skin
but don't let that be a cop out samsung
i'm hoping for a little more variety
next time till then i'll link that skin
below one thing you do get from a huge
phone though is a huge display so just
to give you the numbers 6.9 inch
diagonal 120 hertz
1440p and stop me if you've heard this
before but samsung has once again made
the best display in any smartphone best
brightness
colors contrast best viewing angles of
any smartphone display i've ever seen i
feel like i'm starting to sound like
displaymate it's the highest a-plus i've
ever given
just you'll know when you see it and
it's not just the high-end spec and big
numbers they've also flattened out the
edges of the display so it doesn't spill
over the sides anymore and i appreciate
that from a usability perspective and i
hope they keep that trend up throughout
the rest of their lineup love that and
if i have any gripes really it's that
the ultrasonic fingerprint reader
underneath the screen is basically the
same as last year there's no real
substantial improvements and that's fine
it's still a decently fast and
responsive one
and once you learn where it is with
muscle memory it's kind of quick but i
was hoping these would get bigger and
faster from generation to generation and
that hasn't happened yet now it is worth
noting you don't get all the big numbers
straight out the box this phone is
actually 1080p
60 hertz out the box pretty basic and
you can either notch it up to 120 hertz
or
1440p
but not both at the same time
personally i'm picking 120 hertz every
single time i was waiting for or asking
for the high refresh rate from samsung
and we finally got it and it's great
the difference between 60 hertz and 120
hertz in like 90 of what you're doing on
your phone which is scrolling it's
fantastic and then the display also has
a 240hz touchsense refresh so no matter
what resolution you're in it keeps it
feeling snappy and responsive as
expected which is just what we've seen
in these gaming phones that came before
it now do i wish they would let us use
this phone at 120 hertz and 1440p full
resolution at the same time
yeah i wish they would allow it right
now that's disabled i originally thought
it might be a snapdragon 865 limitation
but it turns out it's not they just
don't enable it because they probably
think it would crush battery but i say
if you're paying 1400 bucks for this
phone and you know what you're getting
yourself into you can still put it at 60
hertz 1080p out the box but let us
enable it if we really want to maybe
they can enable that with a software
update and you know just put a little
disclaimer hey you turn these both on
it'll crush your battery but you paid
for the phone so you get to turn it on
all right so let's talk about that
battery 5 000 milliamp hours on the s20
ultra and this is one of those specs
that usually translates pretty well from
paper to real life the bigger the
battery the better and this one's
getting two big thumbs up from me we
know 5 000 milliamp hours is huge but i
was just a tiny bit worried about how
well it would do powering a giant bright
6.9 inch 120 hertz display turns out
it's perfectly fine i've been getting
consistently six plus hours of screen on
time at the end of every day easy with
battery to spare heavy stuff gaming a
lot of navigation while driving and i've
never killed it in a single day so i
don't even worry about it anymore to be
honest i was thinking that i was going
to have to take a few extra days of
testing to flip it down to 60 hertz and
see how much battery that saves me
but
yeah i don't have to this is an all-day
phone at 120 hertz which is dope but all
right let's just face it the big numbers
that you guys are probably most curious
about and how well they translate is
around the back of this phone and that's
the cameras so that's that 108
megapixels that's 8k video and that's
even printed on the back of this phone
the 100x space zoom but as we've
hopefully learned by now numbers on the
spec sheet for cameras don't always
translate super well to real world
performance i've seen about a million 64
megapixel cameras that are worse than
the 12 megapixel cameras in the pixel
and the iphone so for me seeing how hard
samsung was leaning into this camera
upgrade for the s20 ultra my real
question at the beginning of this was
hey can samsung actually make the best
camera in any smartphone
uh i have a lot of thoughts about this
camera so right off the bat i'm gonna
say this is better in some ways than
their previous cameras but worse in
other ways actually so it still falls
solidly in third place for me i still
prefer photos from the pixel and the
iphone more often than images coming
from samsung but that doesn't mean the
numbers mean nothing by default this
main camera is doing binning that kicks
out a 12 megapixel photo and it is the
sharpest most detailed 12 megapixel
photo out there which i love that's one
of the things that's my favorite about
it and these are classic samsung bright
and colorful usually bringing up shadows
and smoothing out faces the whole thing
that hasn't changed there's also the
ultrawide camera which is the softest of
the three cameras but i'm still glad
it's there it's giving us that first
person the fun perspective and it even
has samsung's much improved night mode
in ultra wide which some others just
straight up don't do and then there is
of course the full 108 megapixel mode
that can be toggled on and yes that did
produce a bit more detail which is
useful especially if you're planning on
zooming in and cropping after you take
that big photo
but for the difference in file size and
the inconvenience of always having to
turn it on i ended up not really feeling
like i needed it most of the time i was
happy with the 12 megapixel shots but if
you pay a little bit more attention to
that main camera especially with
close-up subjects
there's a little bit more to notice
there so keep this in mind the main 108
megapixel camera is
massive like it's physically much larger
than most other smartphone camera
sensors and for the most part it's a
general rule the larger the sensor the
better you're letting in more light you
get bigger pixels it's just a typical
good thing to have a larger sensor and
that's fine um but for those of us
familiar with large sensor photography
and video larger sensors have a look
like that's when you start to get this
naturally blurry foreground and
background and this shallow depth of
field in this case the sensor on this
phone is so big and that dual aperture
feature that they've shipped in a couple
of previous samsung flagships is now
gone so it is wide open at f 1.8 all the
time these things combine to make a
razor thin plane of focus
and so things that aren't in that plane
of focus by even a couple of inches are
out so when i took photos of closer up
subjects which i do i guess more than
normal but enough to notice this
you would not only see that the
background was naturally blurred without
portrait mode but really only part of
the subject is actually in focus and you
can see the rest is falling out of focus
but in this smeared fringe uh bad
looking bokeh
normally this isn't such a weird thing
because with a big high quality sensor
and glass that's just the background
falling naturally out of focus but on
these tiny smartphone optics the bokeh
just isn't quite as beautiful and you
really do start to notice the fringing
and unnatural looking blurred background
now and i also think that this may have
contributed to the autofocus issues you
may have heard about on the s20 ultra
auto focus on this phone for me has been
unusually jumpy and kind of
unpredictable and actually missed focus
a few times especially with close focus
and close subjects and i just haven't
had a flagship phone have issues like
that in a long time and i was trying to
figure out why i think the razer thin
plane of focus from not having dual
aperture mode and probably some not
perfectly optimized software has made
autofocus on the s20 ultra feel kind of
buggy now samsung has already promised
some software updates that should fix
these issues and i believe they can
probably mitigate a lot of these auto
focus issues with software but at the
end of the day you can't beat the
physics of having a larger sensor and
not so great optics so i think that
fringing and that very sharp falloff of
the razor thin depth of field will
continue okay galaxy s20 ultra will also
shoot
8k video that's a new feature these
snapdragon 865 phones are getting and
that should be right up my alley so of
course i go to test it and i am very
impressed with the images you can get
off the smartphone sensor the steels you
can take from the video at 33 megapixels
there's some test clips out there i've
shot some of my own just for kicks and
it's fun but it's not just simply a
higher resolution version of the already
pretty good 4k video there's like a
laundry list of trade-offs here number
one 8k is locked at 24 frames per second
max can't go above that and since we all
know 30 fps is the correct frame rate uh
that's just a limitation of the
snapdragon 865 it just can't quite crank
out 30fps number two it punches in
a lot so at 4k in normal video mode it
could shoot pretty wide without binning
for 8k but they use an 8k window in the
middle of the sensor so when you switch
to 8k mode you see it punch in a ton
which really limits what you can frame
with it number three focus tracking
turns off with 8k video again this is a
limitation of the processing you get
with the snapdragon e65 but it was
already pretty bad without dual pixel
autofocus to begin with so now it's uh
let's be real
really really bad for me it's if you
don't have a clear or far enough away
subject it's gonna be hunting all the
time and that's really distracting and
just doesn't look good on video then
number four because of how much data is
being processed the amount of time it
takes to process from the top line to
the bottom
on that chip it takes a little bit of
time and that creates rolling shutter
and to me it's super obvious and any
footage where you're moving or turning
at all just turns into jelly
i've never seen rolling shutter this bad
in smartphone video in my life and then
five the file sizes it's 8k video it's
going to be huge it's about 10 megabytes
per second so if you take a 60 second
video you're looking at about 600
megabytes which is kind of a pain to
upload so all that combines so 8k video
on this phone it's great it's it's
really cool for like sitting still and
maybe capturing some slow moving or not
so much turning subjects in high
resolution and if you look around that's
what most people are shooting their test
clips of
but other than that as soon as you start
to move around or have to chase focus at
all i'll pass i think i'll have another
year or two of measly 4k video on my
smartphone and be fine i didn't think
i'd be the one saying that but that's
the truth oh and you almost let me
forget to mention
the zoom the thing that's printed on the
back of the phone the 100x space zoom
comes from the 48 megapixel periscope
camera sitting in the side of this phone
okay just because you have
100x zoom
doesn't mean you should use 100x zoom
all the time so my typical smartphone
photo taking behavior is i almost never
zoom i zoom with my feet or i just
switch the ultra wide
but the s20 ultra having this periscope
zoom has made it easier than ever to
just like punch in on subjects further
away and take crisp photos that's
definitely true this phone takes these
sharpest images at 30x zoom i've ever
seen from a phone next to huawei really
impressive stuff everybody really wants
to focus on the 100x like when you zoom
all the way in and it's a cool demo uh
but photos clearly don't look good at
100x you're not supposed to zoom all the
way into 100 every time honestly you'd
have better luck just taking a 30x zoom
photo and cropping in later
no seriously just just zoom in later
it's basically the same thing but then
there's of course just people trashing
the 100x zoom because hey you don't need
100x it looks bad why'd they even put
this on the phone but here's the thing
if you're trashing the 100x zoom because
it looks bad at 100x and you don't think
people need it but ignoring the 30x
that's like
trashing
a new speaker that comes out that goes
up to a hundred decibels
because it sounds bad at 100 decibels
and no one needs it that loud
but you're forgetting that speaker will
sound better at 50 decibels because it's
in the middle of its range than the
others that are maxing out at 50. so
there you go we can appreciate the good
tech when it's there i didn't mean to
turn this whole video into a camera
review but hey it's one of the most
important parts of the phone so the more
you know the better so as far as numbers
go the 108 megapixel number it's there
but it's not quite there but it helps
the 100x number
it's not really there all the time even
though it is i guess printed there all
the time and the 8k number
i actually recommend against using it so
despite all this hype samsung i think is
kind of in the same place they left off
last year with their camera
in third place and maybe a software
update away from closing the gap but
third place and then the rest of this
phone is really samsung doing samsung
things if you've used the galaxy s
before you won't be shocked by anything
here
one ui and it's one-handed optimizations
are more important than ever because of
how big this phone is but really it's
still the super familiar throw in
everything but the kitchen sync strategy
there's a ton there's a there's a
million features on this phone the one
new feature i found really interesting
was the ability to pin apps to the
massive amount of ram so in the
multitasker if you tap the icon at the
top you can
keep the app open for quick launching
that loads it up into the ram
permanently and i messed around with
this a bit i tried it with spotify tried
it with the camera app tried it with my
tasks app that i launch all the time i
didn't really see much of a big
difference in battery so that's nice and
the app really is truly forever open in
the background ready to launch instantly
so having that much more ram on the
phone is quite useful also i feel
obligated to mention yes this is a 5g
phone but you shouldn't buy this phone
just for the 5g i'm on 18t i haven't had
a single second of 5g experience on this
phone but you know if you're on t-mobile
or any of the mid-band or millimeter
wave using carriers your mileage may
vary so the strategy
of throwing all the numbers
at the phone
did it work well i think it mostly
worked i mean this is an excellent phone
best in class in several ways the
display being the most incredible one
and with the battery falling right in
step behind it but as we've learned the
numbers aren't everything and the
question a lot of people seem to like
asking is do you need it
and no of course not
most people will do great with a phone
half this price you don't need this
phone but as a fan of tech i am happy
when stuff at the highest end is pushing
things forward and it's at the bleeding
edge and for a lot of that stuff i do
like the s20 ultra a lot uh and some
people who use their phone a lot won't
have a big problem spending a lot extra
on it now shouldn't a 1400 phone be
pretty much perfect out the box
yeah probably and this clearly isn't
perfect but there's a lot of really
great things about it and this is the
phone i will be pocketing personally
until further notice
um
and i guess crossing my fingers for some
software updates along the way
that's been it thanks for watching
catch you guys in the next one peace